.TH HDLPKG 1 "" "hdlpkg 0.10.0" "HDL IP Packager Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
hdlpkg \- package, version, resolve, and distribute HDL IP cores
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hdlpkg
[\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.I command
[\fIargs\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhdlpkg\fR packages, versions, resolves, and distributes HDL IP cores
(Verilog, VHDL, SystemVerilog) \[em] a dependency manager for reusable hardware design
blocks, in the spirit of Cargo or npm but built for hardware realities.
.PP
A core is described once in a small, declarative \fBip.toml\fR manifest: its identity
(a \fBVLNV\fR \[em] vendor:library:name:version), its dependencies as version
\fIconstraints\fR, its source \fIfilesets\fR, and its build \fItargets\fR. From that,
\fBhdlpkg\fR resolves the full dependency graph to exact versions recorded in a
committed \fBip.lock\fR, fetches and integrity-verifies cores into a content-addressed
cache, packages a core into a deterministic \fB.ipkg\fR artifact for distribution over a
registry, and generates ready-to-run inputs for a simulator or synthesis tool.
.PP
\fBhdlpkg\fR does not replace your build flow: \fB[targets]\fR and \fBgen\fR are
optional, so a team with its own Makefile/Tcl flow can adopt \fBhdlpkg\fR purely to
version, verify, and distribute IP while keeping its existing tooling.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS info
.ad l
Show metadata parsed from a manifest.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg info [\-h] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the manifest (default: ./ip.toml)
.SS validate
.ad l
Parse and validate a manifest.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg validate [\-h] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
\ 
.SS init
.ad l
Scaffold a starter ip.toml.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg init [\-h] [\-\-vendor VENDOR] [\-\-library LIBRARY] [\-\-name NAME] [\-\-version VERSION] [\-\-scheme {semver,calver,monotonic,opaque}] [\-\-description DESCRIPTION] [\-\-license LICENSE] [\-\-top TOP] [\-\-force] [directory]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [directory]
directory to create the manifest in (default: current directory)
.TP
.B \-\-vendor VENDOR
VLNV vendor segment
.TP
.B \-\-library LIBRARY
VLNV library segment
.TP
.B \-\-name NAME
VLNV name segment
.TP
.B \-\-version VERSION
version string (default: 0.1.0)
.TP
.B \-\-scheme SCHEME
how --version is interpreted: 'semver' (default), 'calver', 'monotonic', or 'opaque' for vendor/date codes that are not SemVer (e.g. D5020204)
.TP
.B \-\-description DESCRIPTION
short core description
.TP
.B \-\-license LICENSE
SPDX license identifier
.TP
.B \-\-top TOP
top-level unit (default: the core name)
.TP
.B \-\-force
overwrite an existing ip.toml
.SS resolve
.ad l
Resolve dependencies and write ip.lock.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg resolve [\-h] [\-\-search DIR] [\-\-output OUTPUT] [\-\-registry LOCATION] [\-\-on\-conflict {fail_on_conflict,use_latest,isolate_namespaces}] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the root manifest (default: ./ip.toml)
.TP
.B \-\-search DIR
directory to scan for available cores (repeatable; default: the manifest's parent directory)
.TP
.B \-\-output OUTPUT
where to write the lockfile (default: ./ip.lock next to the manifest)
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION
resolve from a published registry (overrides --search); a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.TP
.B \-\-on\-conflict ON_CONFLICT
how to handle an incompatible version conflict, overriding the manifest's [resolution] on-conflict (default: the manifest's value, or fail_on_conflict)
.SS install
.ad l
Resolve dependencies and fetch them into the local cache.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg install [\-h] [\-\-search DIR] [\-\-cache\-dir DIR] [\-\-output OUTPUT] [\-\-locked] [\-\-registry LOCATION] [\-\-on\-conflict {fail_on_conflict,use_latest,isolate_namespaces}] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the root manifest (default: ./ip.toml)
.TP
.B \-\-search DIR
directory to scan for available cores (repeatable)
.TP
.B \-\-cache\-dir DIR
cache root (default: ~/.hdlpkg/cache)
.TP
.B \-\-output OUTPUT
where to write the lockfile (default: ./ip.lock)
.TP
.B \-\-locked
install exactly from an existing ip.lock without re-resolving (reproducible builds); fail if it is missing
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION
fetch from a published registry (overrides --search); a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.TP
.B \-\-on\-conflict ON_CONFLICT
how to handle an incompatible version conflict, overriding the manifest's [resolution] on-conflict (default: the manifest's value, or fail_on_conflict)
.SS pack
.ad l
Package this core into a distributable .ipkg.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg pack [\-h] [\-\-output OUTPUT] [\-\-sbom [FILE]] [\-\-search DIR] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the manifest
.TP
.B \-\-output OUTPUT
output .ipkg path (default: <vlnv>.ipkg in the cwd)
.TP
.B \-\-sbom FILE
also write a CycloneDX SBOM (default path: <vlnv>.cdx.json)
.TP
.B \-\-search DIR
directory to scan for dependency cores when building the SBOM (default: the manifest's parent directory)
.SS publish
.ad l
Publish this core to a registry.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg publish [\-h] \-\-registry LOCATION [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the manifest
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION  (required)
a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.SS pull
.ad l
Download a core from a registry by VLNV.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg pull [\-h] \-\-registry LOCATION [\-\-output DIR] [\-\-cache\-dir DIR] vlnv
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B vlnv  (required)
the core to pull, e.g. acme:common:fifo:1.0.0
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION  (required)
a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.TP
.B \-\-output DIR
extract the core into this directory
.TP
.B \-\-cache\-dir DIR
cache root (default: ~/.hdlpkg/cache)
.SS yank
.ad l
Hide a published version from new resolves.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg yank [\-h] \-\-registry LOCATION vlnv
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B vlnv  (required)
the core version to yank, e.g. acme:common:fifo:1.0.0
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION  (required)
a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.SS login
.ad l
Store an auth token for a private registry.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg login [\-h] [\-\-username USERNAME] [\-\-token TOKEN] LOCATION
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B LOCATION  (required)
registry URL, e.g. oci://harbor.corp/ip
.TP
.B \-\-username, \-u USERNAME
username for a registry that uses the OCI token-exchange (HTTP Basic) flow; omit for a direct bearer token
.TP
.B \-\-token, \-\-password TOKEN
the bearer token or password (omit to be prompted without echo)
.SS logout
.ad l
Remove a stored registry auth token.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg logout [\-h] LOCATION
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B LOCATION  (required)
registry URL to forget
.SS gen
.ad l
Generate tool-flow inputs for a target.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg gen [\-h] [\-\-search DIR] [\-\-output DIR] [\-\-locked] [\-\-on\-conflict {fail_on_conflict,use_latest,isolate_namespaces}] target [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B target  (required)
the [targets.*] to build (e.g. sim, synth)
.TP
.B [path]
path to the root manifest
.TP
.B \-\-search DIR
directory to scan for dependency cores (repeatable; default: the manifest's parent directory)
.TP
.B \-\-output DIR
output directory (default: ./gen/<target>)
.TP
.B \-\-locked
use the dependency versions pinned in ip.lock instead of re-resolving (reproducible generation); fail if it is missing
.TP
.B \-\-on\-conflict ON_CONFLICT
how to handle an incompatible version conflict, overriding the manifest's [resolution] on-conflict (default: the manifest's value, or fail_on_conflict)
.SS tree
.ad l
Print the resolved dependency graph.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg tree [\-h] [\-\-search DIR] [\-\-registry LOCATION] [\-\-on\-conflict {fail_on_conflict,use_latest,isolate_namespaces}] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the root manifest
.TP
.B \-\-search DIR
directory to scan for dependency cores (repeatable; default: the manifest's parent directory)
.TP
.B \-\-registry LOCATION
resolve from a published registry (overrides --search); a local directory, or a network URL (http(s)://... or oci://...); use 'hdlpkg login' first for a private registry
.TP
.B \-\-on\-conflict ON_CONFLICT
how to handle an incompatible version conflict, overriding the manifest's [resolution] on-conflict (default: the manifest's value, or fail_on_conflict)
.SS export-ipxact
.ad l
Export an IP-XACT (IEEE 1685) component description.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg export\-ipxact [\-h] [\-\-output FILE] [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B [path]
path to the manifest
.TP
.B \-\-output FILE
output XML path (default: <vendor>.<library>.<name>.<version>.xml in the cwd)
.SS add
.ad l
Add or update a dependency in ip.toml.
.PP
.RS 4
hdlpkg add [\-h] [\-\-version CONSTRAINT] dependency [path]
.RE
.PP
.TP
.B dependency  (required)
vendor:library:name[@constraint] (e.g. acme:common:fifo@^1.0.0)
.TP
.B [path]
path to the manifest
.TP
.B \-\-version CONSTRAINT
version constraint (overrides any @constraint; default: *)
.SH TYPICAL WORKFLOW
.SS Producer \[em] publish a core
.EX
hdlpkg init \-\-vendor acme \-\-library comm \-\-name uart
hdlpkg validate ip.toml
hdlpkg pack ip.toml \-\-sbom
hdlpkg login   oci://harbor.corp/ip
hdlpkg publish ip.toml \-\-registry oci://harbor.corp/ip
.EE
.SS Consumer \[em] depend on it, reproducibly
.EX
hdlpkg add acme:comm:uart@^1.2.0
hdlpkg resolve ip.toml \-\-registry oci://harbor.corp/ip
hdlpkg install ip.toml \-\-registry oci://harbor.corp/ip \-\-locked
hdlpkg gen sim ip.toml \-\-locked \-\-output build/sim
.EE
.PP
\fBresolve\fR turns the version \fIconstraint\fR you declared into one exact,
conflict-free version of every core in the transitive graph and records it (plus a
SHA\-256 per core) in \fBip.lock\fR \[em] commit that file. \fBinstall \-\-locked\fR then
re-creates that exact set anywhere, verifying each fetched artifact against the lock and
failing closed on any mismatch; this is the reproducible / CI path. By contrast
\fBpull\fR is a one-off fetch of a single core by exact VLNV \[em] handy to inspect a
block, but it does not resolve a graph, pin versions, or give reproducibility.
.SH VERSIONING AND CONFLICTS
A core's \fB[package].scheme\fR selects how its version string is interpreted:
.TP
.B semver
(default) Full SemVer 2.0.0 precedence and caret/tilde/range constraints.
.TP
.B calver
Ordered calendar versions (\fB2026.1\fR); the first component (year) is the
compatibility boundary.
.TP
.B monotonic
A single ordered revision stream (\fBr3\fR, \fBD5020204\fR); newest supersedes.
.TP
.B opaque
An uninterpreted vendor token, carried verbatim and pinned exactly.
.PP
Compatible dependents unify to one newest version (Cargo-style). A genuinely
incompatible conflict is handled by the \fB[resolution] on-conflict\fR policy
(\fB\-\-on\-conflict\fR): \fBfail_on_conflict\fR (default), \fBuse_latest\fR, or
\fBisolate_namespaces\fR (which name-mangles coexisting SystemVerilog/VHDL packages so
two versions can elaborate together).
.SH REGISTRIES
A \fB\-\-registry\fR / \fBlogin\fR \fILOCATION\fR is chosen by its scheme:
.TP
.B a path, e.g. ./registry
A local-directory registry (zero setup; a shared folder works).
.TP
.B http(s)://host/prefix
An HTTP registry (any GET/PUT-capable server).
.TP
.B oci://host/prefix
An OCI registry (JFrog Artifactory, Harbor, Nexus, GitLab, ECR/ACR, Zot); use
\fBoci+http://\fR for a plaintext/dev one.
.PP
Network registries are private by default: authenticate once with \fBhdlpkg login\fR
(a direct bearer token, or \fB\-\-username\fR for the OCI token-exchange). Publishing is
append-only \[em] a version is immutable; retire a bad one with \fByank\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ip.toml
The core manifest at a project root: identity, dependencies, filesets, targets.
.TP
.B ip.lock
The generated, committed lockfile pinning every (transitive) dependency to one exact
version plus a SHA\-256 checksum. Commit it for reproducible builds.
.TP
.B ~/.hdlpkg/cache
Content-addressed cache of fetched cores, verified on every read.
.TP
.B ~/.hdlpkg/credentials.toml
Per-host registry tokens stored by \fBlogin\fR. A \fBdocker login\fR
(\fB~/.docker/config.json\fR) is reused as a fallback.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Scaffold and check a new core
.EX
hdlpkg init \-\-vendor you \-\-library demo \-\-name widget
hdlpkg validate ip.toml
.EE
.TP
.B A non-SemVer vendor version
.EX
hdlpkg init \-\-vendor you \-\-library demo \-\-name widget \\
    \-\-version D5020204 \-\-scheme opaque
.EE
.TP
.B Inspect the resolved graph
.EX
hdlpkg tree ip.toml \-\-registry oci://harbor.corp/ip
.EE
.TP
.B Reproducible CI build (no re-resolve)
.EX
hdlpkg install ip.toml \-\-locked
hdlpkg gen sim ip.toml \-\-locked \-\-output build/sim
.EE
.TP
.B Grab one core to inspect it
.EX
hdlpkg pull acme:common:fifo:1.0.0 \-\-registry ./registry \-\-output ./fifo
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns \fB0\fR on success and \fB1\fR on any error (a bad manifest, an unresolvable graph, a registry/auth failure, or a checksum mismatch); the cause is printed to standard error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Base for the default cache and credentials store (\fB~/.hdlpkg\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: \fBhttps://germanbravolopez.github.io/hdl\-ip\-packager/\fR
.br
Per-command help: \fBhdlpkg \fR\fIcommand\fR\fB \-\-help\fR
.SH AUTHOR
German Bravo Lopez.
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
